``Task 1``

What are Git and GitHub?

GIT :

Git is a *distributed control version software* i.e. it helps us to keep the record of the history in the form of remote and local repo(repository) so that we can access the history any time without any onstruction.

GITHUB :

 GitHub is a website or web service which allows people to perform social coding which has version control on them i.e. Git

Que2: Why GitHub is so popular and used in  most of the projects?
•It is open source platform
• GitHub makes social coding possible thus collaboration of many people on same project

Que 3: what are the other platforms similar to GitHub?
• GitLab
• GitBucket


Second day task

Ques 1. How git workflow works? 

Git workflow is basically helps the user to understand git effectively. Git workflow basically contains the following steps:-
1. Creating branch(by default master) where your files will be commited
2. Ofc creating files and working on it, at the end commiting the file.
3. Merge your other branch if you have created any with master if your newly created branch worked perfectly or else modify.
The files will be stored in local and remote repo so that we can access our project anytime.


Ques 2. What are the different stages of a git project as commit, add? 

1.Modified: we can modify the files or projects in the local repo without disturbing the original project.
2.staged:Staging area is the place where files are ready to be added in local repo.
3.commit: it is basically saving the file in the repo but each time you commit, the id or hash of the file or project will change thus making you available with the history of your project.


Ques 3. Is it possible to do a git commit before git add. If you have made any changes? Explain why?

-> No it's not possible as a file must be added and then must be committed which will give a hash(unique ID) to the file and if u made changes then again a new hash will be generated.


Ques 4. Why is git diff used? 

->It is used to track the difference between the changes made on a project. 


Ques 5. Can we leave commit message as blank? 

->yes we can leave the commit message as blank.