Hello Everyone,
My name is Chetana Tijare,pursuing B.E in Information Technology from YCCE,Nagpur.

Task 1:

1.What is git and Github?
         
	Git is created by Linus Torvald.git is a distributed version control system.It is designed to track changes to 
file.
 
       	Github is a software used for version control. it is useful when more than one person is working on a project.



2.Why Github is so popular and used in most of the projects?
      
	Github is so popular because:
 
	it makes easy to contribute to your open source projects.
	
Can be accessed anytime anywhere.
	
provides secure cloud storage
	
documentation
	
showcase your work
	
markdown



3.What are the other platforms similar to Github?
 
	 Gitlab
  
	 Bitbucket
  
	 Beanstalk
  
	 Sourceforge

Task 2:

1.How git workflow works?
   
	workflow is about  controlling the sequence of events.
	
git workflow consist of 4  fundamental elements.
	
Workspace
	
Index(Stage)
	
Local Repository
	
Remote Repository
    
	
	The file in the workspace can be in 3 states. 
	It can be committed which means the changes in the file are safely saved to the local repository. It could be modified and it could be staged means 	the file is the part of the index.




2.what are the diffrent stages of a git project as commit,add?

  
	clone: creates local copy of repository in the workspace.

  
	add(-u):add file from workspace to the index.

  
	commit:All the files which are staged that are listed to the local repository .

  
	commit -a:add files from workspace to local repository.

  
	push:it pushes files from local repository to remote repository.

  
	fetch : get the file from remote repository to local repository.

  
	merge: gets file from local repository to workspace.

  
	pull: It takes the file directly from remote repository to workspace.




3.Is it possible to do a git commit before git add.if you have made any changes ? Explain why?
  
	 No. It is not possible to do a git commit before git add.



4.why is git diff used?
      
	diff command is used in git to track the difference between the changes made on a file.

	

5.Can we leave the commit meassage as blank ?
   
	git generally requires a non-empty message because providing a meaningfulcommit message is part of good development practice.
But we can use  git commit -a –allow-empty-message -m ' ' command for passing blank message.





Regards
Chetana Tijare