Hello everyone , I am Saksham Garg and currently pursuing my  Btech degree  in computer science from UPES,dehradun.


Task 1 :
1.What is git and GitHub?

Git is a distributed version control tool and helps in merging different source code. From version control system I mean that it helps in recording and managing a project's source code and its past versions as well. It helps in keeping track of changes made in a source code and all this is done with the help of repositories  which it maintains and managing them. It is a open source tool and is completely self sufficient, installed on our local system rather than in the cloud.

Github is a cloud-based hosting service used to host open source projects and thus help in bringing team together. It is used to manage Git-repositories.

2.Why GitHub is so popular in most of the project?

Github is so popular in most of the projects because:
(A) It provides secure cloud storage for source code
(B) It has collaboration feature which helps in bringing team together.
(C)It supports all programming languages.
(D)It came up with a Model-view-presenter.

3.Whay are the other platforms similar to Github?

(A) SorceForge
(B) GitLab
(C)Phabricator




TASK 2

(A) How git workflow works?
There is one Central repository. Any developer who wants to make any changes clone that repository and make changes locally using commit command. Then pushes it to the central repository so that any other developer wanting to make any change can pull and use in their work.

(B) What're the different stages of a git project as commit, add? 
Git Workflow consist of the four fundamental elements: 
•	Workspace(also known as Working Directory) and if we consider a file, it can have 3 states:
 (a)Committed : meaning latest changes in the data is stored in local repo.
 (b)Modified: means the changes are done but are not securely stored or will not be reflected in local repository.
 (c)Staged: meaning file is part of index element.

•	Index(also known as Stage)
•	Local Repository(also known as Head)
•	Remote Repository
  
CLONE COMMAND: If we are gaining access to a remote repository then we need to clone it by following it by URL using git clone command which will create a local cpopy of repository in our workspace.
ADD COMMAND: This command will add the file in the workspace in the index stage and thus we call this file as staged file.
COMMIT COMMAND:  This command will commit all files that are staged with their changes and are safely stored.
               
We can perform these add and commit commands in a single defined command as commit -a which helps in commiting all files at once if they are part of repository and already known.
PUSH COMMAND: It pushes the changes that are in the local repository to the remote repository and anyonce having access to this remote repo can see the changes.
 
For opposite flow we have following commands:

FETCH COMMAND: Used to get files from the remote repository to local repository.
MERGE CAMMAND: It get changes from local repo and get them to workspace.
DIFF COMMAND: Used to tell the difference between files which are in workspace and ones which are stagged for commit.

(c) Is it possible to do a git commit before git add . if you have made any changes? Explain why?
No ,it is not possible because first according to the workflow, we first have to add the file to the staging area and then we can commit changes in the respective file in local repository.

 (d) Why is git diff used?
This command is used to check the difference or changes made on a files in the workspace.

 (e) Can we leave the commit message as blank?
Yes, it  is seen as a vvalid request and we can do it by using following command :
git commit -a --allow-empty-message -m ""

My Github Repository link is:
https://github.com/sgarg-10/Virtual_Intern

Regards
Saksham Garg(UPES)